in contrast , the benefit is dubious to the workers German that would also wanted benefit of this capital . 
the fifth shock , it is the unification of the Germany , a failure in terms of economy . 
these five shocks are of developments historical beneficial to the world in its together , but problematic to the Germany . 
if the countries wants do face to its challenges and continue to grow , it him be relax its market the labor . 
it is while only that we know if the Germany is able of confront the challenge of the that the expected . 
it is a evidence of the globalization , while that the television showed the images striking of the destruction of homes in the world world . 
in indeed , it is in these the that the world like really to a village global . 
the aid US seems still mean-spirited by comparison the amounts offered by of countries that cannot have that a fraction of wealth US . 
they is have asked that a only something : The reduction of taxes tariffs and a best access the markets foreign . 
one cannot claims that it is possible of alter or of prevent the forces of the nature . 
we must rather learn to the manage . 
we speaks now of systems of warning improved to prevent of possible tsunamis . 
we have already , however , received a warning in the area of changes climate . 
we cannot are not still a village global . 
the optimistic say that the technology will of solve these problems . 
the experts that the worse and the best are those that have the more trend to exaggerate . 
in indeed , the media their agree a much attention all in neglecting their colleagues more modest . 
they know how sustain the impetus of a discussion in multiplying the reasons showing that they are in the true and that the other is wrong . 
it is this that their wins the approval of media . 
they take their theories too the serious . 
but this is is not just . 
no society is has still created of method reliable to of assess the results of experts . 
what future to the Europe ? 
a of few good ideas of the Lisbon of Lisbon was of suppress the barriers tariffs to the exchange of services . 
because that the services are 70 % the GDP European and the impact potential of a competition improved is important . 
it is however always difficult , politically , of suppress the protections . 
it is is little surprising that this proposal has quickly was abandoned . 
many are the governments that fear their farmers the point of is have not of another choice that of cannot not give , what that are the circumstances . 
the Europe has accepted the idea of a political trade single . 
it is is has that little of reasons of remain optimistic . 
the the of attacks political to the ECB could trigger of dangerous debates on the restrictions of its independence . 
the team current of leaders has vastly disappointed . 
this situation is applies in all the Atlantic . 
the Reserve Federal US is of course extremely independent . 
the political monetary cannot is however not a way single of making of political economic . 
the aspects of the political fiscal could also be delegates to of bureaucrats independent to of keep the politicians on the ranks . 
as , why this vast difference the in reality as in America that in Europe ? 
it is is not necessary of simply 100 % of voters , but just a number enough to win the victory . 
the map fiscal is a role critical in the choice of groups of voters to buy . 
it is a task of more difficult ! 
of course , the political has also of effects of redistribution . 
think the different effects of rates of interest on the debtors by opposition the creditors . 
these considerations should guide the choice the apparatus for to replace the Stability of stability in Europe . 
the politicians are loans to is give many of evil to satisfy their supporters and win the elections . 
we can the better hope we ensure that the worst acts that they commit are made to face discovered . 
we cannot can deny that some of these factors are of challenges considerable . 
but they are often exaggerated and certainly not insurmountable . 
the negotiations with the Turkey would long and the membership could cannot not have instead before 2015 . 
with 80 million of people , the Turkey would the a of more large states members of the Union European . 
in reason of the weakness of its economy , the Turkey could claim to of aid important . 
the immigration cannot should not not more cause of concerns unnecessary . 
but among the countries of origin likely of migrants , the Turkey supply the best chances of adaptation successful . 
it is the population Muslim of Turkey that is the more of emotion . 
many have the sense that the Turkey is has not its place in a society European based on a culture and of traditions Christian . 
but it is in any democracy , where of groups extremists could divert the process democratic to achieve to their purposes . 
the membership of the Turkey would a response strong , with a resonance particular in the world Muslim . 
the entry of the Turkey in the Union European opens of large prospects and is accompanied also of challenges to overcome . 
but the prospects are of far higher . 
the game of the democracy 
of more in more , the free expression of the opinion is influence or cannot mastery the behavior the government . 
consider the US . 
never ago a such opposition cannot is was evinced to a war 
the war that is place currently in Iraq in is without doubt the better evidence . 
the 18 April is will to Bangkok a conference to look the prospects of improvement of the governance in Asia . 
the policymakers political Asian of the exasperated must do face to a environment of different of that of their predecessors fifty years more sooner . 
the population Asian has more that doubled since 1950 , mainly in the countries the more poor . 
the system political of these countries was adapted to of populations little important , stable and rural . 
the exasperated , these societies must also of manage of centers urban expanded that of talent and of demands multiple of the share of populations urban . 
the economy global has also changed radically . 
as , the institutions international such that the WTO have changed the frameworks of reference to the within which the decisions economic are taken . 
the changes changes in the economies local are also radical . 
the investment foreign own the regions or even external have altered the structure of economies domestic . 
it be so create of new rules the game . 
in the most of countries Asian , the rules official must be simple and applied of way more fair . 
few are the countries that can mark of points in these areas . 
in some regions of Asia the South , of violent conflicts and the power of interests in place have put in danger the principles legal . 
the business cannot is lead not the court but in the meetings where the confidence and the reputation are of elements essential . 
yet , the governments have a role to play in the incentives of a environment favorable the within which the markets can operate . 
the trade trade are a game to sum positive where all the countries benefit of the exploitation of their areas of advantage compared . 
this that makes so a role important the comparisons international of systems . 
the sector private and the society civil are , of course , of more in more often of important partners to the governments . 
each countries should so adopt a process of reminder to preserve the legitimacy of governments ? 
absolutely not . 
but the leaders must have the chance of govern . 
but this desire seems sometimes overwhelming in the democracies the of all the countries the world world . 
as , the arguments in for of a government representative remain not negligible . 
the parliaments speak before of form of conclusions , of where their name . 
the leaders have need of time to take and apply of decisions as unpopular that popular . 
they have need of courage to lead of majorities parliamentary often precarious on the way of a popularity that is of senior and of low . 
the partnership precarious the first Minister Tony Blair and the Minister of finance Gordon Brown illustrates perfectly this type of tactic . 
the leaders that cannot may never their popularity cannot are not trustworthy of their position . 
Herbert Hoover and the Stability of stability 
the cuts fiscal can increase the income available . 
the decline of tax and the rising of spending broaden the deficit the budget but of way healthy and effective . 
the side US of the Atlantic , the utility of these stabilizers tax is is not challenge in cause . 
the contrary , to each threat of recession , the debate political is around of their strengthening by of impulses 
not more that this cannot is a question of discipline fiscal . 
we know the origins the Stability of stability and of growth . 
but it is dangerous of do a pricing on the past . 
yet , if this question was settled more of fifty years more sooner , why the we haunt ? 
justification of the intervention humanitarian 
each of them spoke without constraints of institutions , of procedures democratic and the respect of the law . 
but the rights of the man were a about entirely to share . 
I I presented in each countries a list of prisoners political , in asking what was their fate . 
the system international has of elsewhere quickly adopted ( and transformed ) this notion and several interventions humanitarian 
after all , the promoting the respect of rights of the man has been the principle director of the establishment of the UN . 
the principle of sovereignty must in moreover be redefined in himself . 
the restrictions legal on the intervention humanitarian are needed because the dictators the use too often to justify a aggression criminal . 
in this context more vast and uncertain , the need of regulate the intervention humanitarian military threat . 
that wants the America ? 
I cannot speaks not of principles , but of political . 
the US is watching not a approach " a only size to all " to the world . 
but the political of defense cannot is that a only of components of the political foreign . 
all the threats against the interests national of the America cannot can not is solve by the force military . 
the partnership with of other countries is a role paramount to this point . 
these institutions can and are often progress the interests national of US . 
the Organization World the WTO in is a example typical . 
but the US must also is ensure that the institutions existing are tailored the realities current . 
the multilateralism is more Danes of success when it is based on a real convergence of interests and of values . 
the UN and of other structures global can sometimes be the better kept to deal the goals of political foreign of US . 
this flexibility is a asset of first importance in reason of the nature of challenges that is re-elections to the horizon . 
the a of our tasks the more urgent to the hour current is to avoid the implosion of states weak . 
it is is has of course no relationship of simple cause to indeed that links the poverty and the inequality to the violence . 
but the inequality and a some sense of the deprivation contribute the resentment and to the instability social , and threaten the security . 
not more that it is is of explanation simple on the causes of the poverty . 
it is some that the world has been the witnessed of few progress in several areas these recent decades . 
in the together , however , the gap of inequality remains deep and in some case it is even in expansion . 
of such differences of growth suggest that the inequality global in the together is have perhaps not increased of way not unequivocally . 
between time , the negotiations on the liberalization of trade have seemed ignore the trends historical . 
the countries that imports the products currently subsidized suffer . 
the Reserve implemented the time to begin the process of normalization of rates and it in paying now the prices . 
the growth of the mass monetary is of higher the levels target since a some time , this that indicates a liquidity excessive . 
in these circumstances , it is is has no good reason of expect still before of raise the rates interest . 
one is in has really envy . 
the process of end is in march . 
but it is easy to the men political of act of way irresponsible when it is is of political monetary . 
this is is not where the type of political monetary volatile that the Europe wants , or that whose it has need . 
the West against the remains the world ? 
the attacks to the bomb of Madrid have brought the doors of the Europe the scourge the terrorism . 
the 11 March is now the version European the 11 September US . 
should so understand that the Europe and the US have of visions considerably different ? 
the division apparent on the political foreign is explains in part by a misunderstanding on the nature of " the Europe " . 
the project European is the response of a realistic to the globalization and to its challenges . 
with reached these goals , the Europe wants now provide a contribution positive the developments the world . 
in indeed , the France and the Germany cannot is mean not course . 
the majority of Americans see always in the Europe a partner pursuing in much part the same goals in the world . 
the majority of Europeans see in the America a friend solid . 
the creation of a such ability would of the EU a partner transatlantic more effective . 
the only way of do disappear these fears is to establish a dialogue more closer and more often . 
some countries Western have tried of create a " conflict of civilizations " based on our time troubled . 
our task is to find a way of we set together without to as we set against a countries in particular . 
the government has always the delay in on of reforms economic national . 
but this inability to approach the problems structural risk of expose the economy to of shocks external on the long-term long-term . 
it would so premature that the India opens its account of capital immediately . 
the exporters could exchange 30 % of their income the conditions the market . 
little any that these troops allow of apply the demands of the UN . 
but is true ? 
the history suggests the contrary . 
the UN is born of ashes of a war that the League of UN is is proved in the inability of prevent . 
it has took that of countries of good will form a coalition to save the Bosnia of the extinction . 
a once the war over , the peace was concluded to Dayton , in the Ohio , and not to the UN . 
this century launches now a challenge the hopes of a new order global on of new plans . 
the Iraq was part of those , but it in is of of other . 
we left so only with the coalitions knowledgeable by the countries of good will . 
it is time the exasperated of let fall the neoliberalism and the consensus of Washington . 
the key of a strategy of investment is of achieve to interested the men of business local to the economy local . 
encourage the investment abroad or is painter to the liberalization total then expect that the situation is improves is is not viable . 
to this , the governments must use also of the carrot that the stick . 
find this that a countries product ( or could produce ) easily is the main challenge of all development economic . 
build and solidify these institutions is however the time . 
the essential by has of arrangements institutional that by need are specific to each countries . 
find this that works in a countries any means a some experimentation . 
the reforms that work in a environment can is be mediocre or delinquent in of other . 
adopt this approach cannot wants not say abandon a thinking economic standard , far of where . 
in the two case , it be have a faith of rooted to move of the a to the another . 
the critics the neoliberalism cannot should not is oppose to the economy classic but only to its bad employment . 
the another Europe Central 
the Prime Minister Czech Milos the has quickly demonstrated that it could him also play a map nationalist demagogic . 
to of defuse a battle electoral with its rival , Schroeder is has agreed . 
the issues about to the order legal of the Europe of the postwar will of beyond of the former Czechoslovakia . 
in the years 1930 , the beast black of some countries of the Europe Central was the the Treaty of Versailles the . 
that is that could cut this process ? 
the notions of the guilt collective the have been brushed as is with no basis in a Europe unified and the . 
the major consequences of the war in Iraq cannot are not to seek on the field of battle . 
is they is reveal justified , the war lead perhaps on a world more course . 
the war is has not been justified and cannot could the be the fact that Saddam Hussein is a tyrant . 
they have cited four arguments : 
the Iraq has of weapons of destruction mass . 
these weapons are a threat serious and immediate . 
the inspections of the UN cannot allowed not of eliminate this threat . 
the war was the best way of in end with this threat . 
the first argument invoked will the more easy to check . 
the second argument is more delicate to prove . 
we know that the Iraq has owned of weapons chemical and biological , because that the US the him have sold . 
if the Iraqis use now these weapons , this will the evidence that they were ready to be used . 
the third argument ready largely to controversial . 
Bush and Blair must demonstrate that the inspections of the UN were inefficient . 
the fourth argument will used to the envy by the propaganda of two camps . 
it in will other if the four arguments presented is turn the . 
a such explanation , based on a arguments rigorous , is all also necessary the exasperated . 
if the reasons data to trigger this war is were not borne , the consequences in would serious . 
but in this case , the war will had a sense . 
the idea of a war fully absurd is almost too frightening to dare the consider . 
remember and oblivion of Zhao Ziyang 
as so the former leader Chinese and Secretary General the Party Communist Zhao Ziyang is finally died . 
it is is not some that the supporters of Zhao is express of the even way . 
the risks real of deficits 
the deficit fiscal the government US is $ now to the billion of $ , is 4.1 % the GDP . 
two years ago , the US had predicted a surplus fiscal on of long years . 
in is who in deficit , a countries increases its debt national and imposes a burden on the generations to come . 
the politicians prefer course hide the way whose is perform the movements of wealth between the generations . 
they aim in priority to settle the problems immediate and to collect the exasperated the benefits promised . 
but these accounting cannot we offer not of method to of whether when the deficits are justified and when they cannot the are not . 
no generation cannot should be obliged of accept the risks economic unnecessary imposed by a another generation . 
of such arguments , of that they are all to fact legitimate to some moments , have of limits . 
the governments could of new decide of act in this sense , all particularly if the debt national believe more . 
it is possible that a opposition public continues to a increase gradual of the inflation cannot resists not long . 
this means that the problem is political . 
we have need of a system just from the departure to of power manage the risks that cover several generations of way rational . 
consider the example the warming of the world . 
of time to another , it challenges in issues the theories scientists . 
also cannot the not the political environmental . 
what that it in is , the political US is was not based on the evidence scientists . 
since the end of the war Cold , the America is the only superpower global . 
the Europe and the remains the world are aware of this failure but they cannot vote not in of elections US . 
even as , the remains the world is is not without use . 
the globalization economic has however exceeded the globalization political and the process of taken of decision are of far of be democratic or even transparent . 
in this case , the Europe is all as guilty that the America . 
the true prices of the war in Iraq 
in the life , the things the more important , as the life itself , is have not of prices . 
the administration cannot wants not not more look in face the problems of recruitment military and of peacekeeping of troops . 
course , the more heavy burden of wounds and of deaths is borne by the soldiers and their families . 
but the army paying of benefits of disability that are of lower to the value of income lost . 
but the costs cannot is quit not where . 
in the even time , the money affected to the war would have be spent to another something . 
it is a some number of other costs , some potentially important , that are very difficult to quantify . 
the fact that the Americans are loans to the pay suggests that this value potential is higher the costs . 
in short , even our estimate " moderate " can underestimate of way significant the cost of the commitment US in Iraq . 
and our estimate cannot includes no of costs involved by the huge losses in lives human and in goods in Iraq . 
we cannot are not not more in now of try of judge is it was of means more profitable of do the war . 
but of such considerations seem be outside of scope of calculations of the administration Bush . 
the democracies they need of values ? 
that is truly our model Western of development democratic ? 
beyond of freedoms fundamental and of our system economic and social , we a society specific to defend ? 
this that is is not true of regimes totalitarian or fundamentalists that must be shot to give the day to of societies free . 
can their oppose another something that the freedoms individual ? 
we will of more in more need of discount our pact social . 
notice however that , in of of countries , the parties political are of difficulties to is commit in of such discussions . 
the fight in defense of the democracy cannot can not be selective . 
a some vision desirable to the future the world must do call to of visions shared of justice and of fairness . 
we must all become of fighters of the freedom . 
last hope to the Venezuela : of elections 
the Venezuela is paralyzed in a impasse dangerous . 
the government Chávez is has not been of a great relief to the classes the more poor the Venezuela . 
the exasperated Bush Chávez cannot has more the support of the majority of classes poor . 
the opinion of the opposition , that sharing the wing right the government Bush , is also little convincing . 
after all , of such confrontations cannot are not extraordinary to the regimes presidential rigid of America Latin . 
to be accepted of two parties , a such solution cannot can respond the wishes of each of parties . 
no of two proposals is is so possible politically . 
this mechanism , it is the held of elections , to organize the more faster ( this been seems the more realistic ) . 
each part will work of hard to win the victory . 
the President Chávez will clarify the content and the sense of its the revolution Bolivarian the . 
in him , the regime of Bush Assad meeting also few difficulties . 
the reforms political and economic is argue that to small not , when they argue . 
Bush Assad between now in phase of consolidation , this that leaves little of place to the reforms . 
the overhaul of November last that implemented the power the and of other was considered as the reflection of preferences of Bush Assad . 
the consolidation , however , is is in nothing the reform . 
Bush Assad will show that its authority strengthened can lead to a transformation real . 
until to far , the President has followed a line hard to the Iraq , the Lebanon and the business domestic . 
